# DS2-FirstAssignment

This repository contains an implementation of the **Broadcast-Only Communication Model Based on Replicated Append-Only Logs** algorithm proposed by Christian F. Tschudin in [1].

## The team

- Riccardo Capraro - 203796
- Riccardo Micheletto - 215033

## The protocol

The protocol was proposed as an alternative to common wired networks; it based on the concept of solitons, waves generated by a station (relay) that propagate indefinitely in all directions of space as perturbations. Each wave, in addition to carrying the information it is propagating, is also composed of an identifier of the relay that generated it and a reference that allows to establish an order between waves generated by the same source. All this information is necessary to guarantee the system the properties of a reliable, ordered broadcast system. The algorithm then suggests to keep track of the received waves through the use of append-only logs. This data structure is useful to obtain some additional functionalities that might be desirable, such as the recovery of lost information.

Our solution implements as extensions of the basic message exchange protocol:

- different wave generation distributions;
- distance-based wave propagation times;
- different space topologies;
- random latencies in wave transmission and a mechanism to handle delayed waves;
- message loss recovery though a retransmission protocol;
- dynamic join of relays and history retrieval.

## How to run

To run the code you can either import the project in eclipse or run `java -jar installer.jar`, that can be downloaded from [here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/12TQqRyzfIqjsmM1PgoXr1_2jKD0pTYzI/view?usp=sharing). Since the project was compiled with java11, be sure to use a compatible version. When you run the command above, an installer will allow you to install the program on your system: choose a folder and there you will find the program **start_model** that you can use to start the model.

The list of parameters that can be modified to change the simulation specifications can be found in the PDF report contained in this repository.

## References

[1] Christian Tschudin. A broadcast-only communication model based on replicated append-only logs. ACM SIGCOMM Computer Communication Re-view, 49:37–43, 05 2019.
